Risk Treatment, and Information Sharing Ensure Value and Risk Optimization Select Risk Response After selecting and implementing controls and other methods of risk treatment, system-level personnel assess the effectiveness and efficiency of that treatment (e.g., through the Assess step of the NIST Risk Management Framework). Risk managers evaluate threats and opportunities, in alignment with risk strategy and direction from enterprise- and organization-level guidance. They determine the benefits of the following responses: Mitigate, Accept, Avoid, and Transfer for negative risks; Realize, Share, Enhance, and Accept for positive risks. Analyze and Prioritize Risks There are benefits to both qualitative and quantitative risk analysis methodologies and even the use of multiple methodologies, based on enterprise strategy, organization preference, and data availability (ID.RA). The relative priority of various types of risk must be decided upon by those with appropriate authority, usually through guidance provided through the risk management strategy (GV.RM). Communicate Risk Findings and Decisions The cybersecurity risk register (CSRR) provides a location to record and communicate the known system-level threats and vulnerabilities, their impact on business objectives, and actions taken or planned. Risk managers share information about residual risk, including metrics that support ongoing assessment and authorization, and plans of actions & milestones for maintaining the appropriate level of risk based on stakeholders’ expectations (as expressed in the target state of the Organizational Profiles, especially the Govern and Identify functions).

CSF outcomes (planned and current) support a Monitor-Evaluate-Adjust cycle for achieving ERM objectives. As risk management is applied through various controls (as described above), the results are continually evaluated for effectiveness. CSF provides examples of how to do this through CSF Informative References, described at the Online Informative References (OLIR) web site . At the organization level, the results of various system-level activities and results (as reflected in CSRRs) are aggregated and normalized. Managers monitor how well the cyber risk strategy is being implemented, evaluate indicators to confirm performance goals and highlight potential changes in the risk landscape, and then make any adjustments necessary to accentuate achievement of opportunities (positive risk) and reduce impactful threat conditions to an acceptable level. This cycle enables creation and maintenance of an organization-level CSRR, and updates to the Organizational Profiles to reflect refined current state and adjusted Target State. MONITOR • Measure whether controls are still implemented and effective • Measure the extent to which controls are implemented without impairing organizational operations and efficiency EVALUATE • Assess if organizational controls are achieving the desired risk results • Assess if risk management activities are keeping risk within tolerance (e.g., evaluating key risks and key performance indicators) • Compare current outcomes to the target state described in Organizational Profiles ADJUST • Implement additional controls and enhancement as needed • Implement alternative controls to enhance opportunity